An introduction to 1 Kings.
First and Second Kings
were originally one volume,
which was later made into two.
Jeremiah is believed to be the writer.
First Kings continues
where Second Samuel leaves off.
The account covers a period
of some 129 years,
beginning about 1040 B.C.E.
with King David’s final days
and ending in about 911 B.C.E.
when King Jehoshaphat dies.
In the first part of the book,
after the death of King David,
Israel enjoys peace and prosperity
under Solomon’s rule.
In the second part, false worship takes root
and Israel is split into two kingdoms.
In chapter 1, Solomon is anointed as king.
In chapter 3, Jehovah blesses King Solomon
with extraordinary wisdom,
along with riches and glory.
In chapter 4, God’s people prosper
under Solomon’s rule.
Chapters 5 through 8 discuss
the construction of the temple,
the making of its utensils,
and Solomon’s dedication prayer.
In chapter 10, the queen of Sheba
hears a report about Solomon
and then travels to Jerusalem to see him.
After observing the king’s wisdom
and prosperity, she says:
“Look! I had not been told the half.”
In chapter 11, Solomon,
in disobedience to Jehovah,
“loved many foreign women.”
These pagan wives
gradually incline Solomon’s heart
to worship other gods,
including Ashtoreth and Milcom.
After reigning for 40 years, Solomon dies
and his son Rehoboam takes the throne.
In chapter 12, Rehoboam promises
to add to the already heavy burden
on the people.
Ten tribes revolt
and make Jeroboam their king.
Rehoboam is left with the tribes
of Judah and Benjamin.
Jeroboam sets up the worship
of golden calves
to discourage his subjects
from worshipping in Jerusalem.
Idolatry becomes entrenched
in the northern kingdom,
and this leads to oppression,
power struggles, and assassinations.
In chapters 14 and 15,
Rehoboam and Abijam after him
allow false worship
to take root in the southern kingdom.
Did you know?
About 33 years
after Solomon inaugurated the temple,
Jehovah allowed Pharaoh Shishak
to plunder its treasures.
This shows that Jehovah is pleased,
not by impressive buildings,
but by pure worship.
In chapter 15,
Asa becomes king in Jerusalem
and he does what is right in God’s eyes.
He is succeeded by his son Jehoshaphat,
who imitates his good example.
The next chapter mentions
a number of wicked kings
in the northern kingdom.
These include Ahab,
who marries the pagan princess Jezebel.
She and her husband
bring Baal worship into the kingdom.
In chapter 18, the prophet Elijah
proposes a test on Mount Carmel
to show who is the true God—Jehovah or Baal.
Jehovah demonstrates that he is the true God.
In chapter 19, Elijah flees for his life
when he receives a death threat from Jezebel.
Jehovah appears to Elijah at Mount Horeb
and comforts him in “a calm, low voice.”
He gives Elijah further assignments.
In the final chapter, Ahab disregards
the prophet Micaiah’s warning
against fighting Syria.
As a result, Ahab is killed in battle.
His son Ahaziah takes the throne in Israel.
Later, Jehoshaphat also dies,
and his son Jehoram becomes king in Judah.
As you read 1 Kings,
note how false worship
leads to great suffering,
see how true worship promotes
peace and happiness,
and take comfort that Solomon’s wisdom
pales in comparison to that of Jesus Christ,
the incorruptible King of God’s Kingdom.